---
layout: post
title: Kumite IX
date: 2026-05-06 16:20:00-0500
featured: true
description: Kumite IX
tags: EternalCentral
author: Mike Klements
categories: Tournaments OldSchool
thumbnail: assets/img/KumiteIX/1.jpg
toc:
  sidebar: left
images:
  photoswipe: true
  spotlight: true
  venobox: true
pretty_table: true
giscus_comments: true
---

# Roc Report - Kumite IX!

64 OS fighters (sold out) gathered in Michigan for the coveted Kumite IX tournament – a classic charity 93/94 EC event that can’t be missed. As always, the vibe was impeccable. Somehow, I managed to miss the last several Kumites due to some various schedule conflicts, and I have to say, this event certainly lived up to its reputation!

Magic aside, Kumite IX highlighted “the gathering” – where many of us look forward to seeing friends, making new ones, and enjoying the centric hobby we have all chosen to identify with. Kumite is rich with history, personal alter contributions, stamps, and a wild variety of unique and iconic cards on the tables.

The room was full of familiar faces, and I’d like to apologize that I can’t highlight all players in this recap (because you deserve it). I’m going to keep this report straight forward, and focus on some Rocs in attendance, and some wild Cleveland deck lists.

{% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/KumiteIX/1.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}

As usual, I deliberated on a few favorite 93/94 lists, but landed on what has become a unique old reliable for me in recent years: “Angel Food”. I was able to go 4-2 (13th). I’ll detail my experience below, round by round.

{% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/KumiteIX/2.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}

Steven had the winningest record amongst us, also going 4-2 (12th) on Bazaar Zoo!

{% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/KumiteIX/3.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}

Rajah piloted a grueling living plane control list that yielded some strong results and, as usual, won the style game before the matches even began.

{% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/KumiteIX/4.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}

Kyle (“Mr consistency”) did not end up winning the tournament, despite threats to do so. He did cruise with a cloaked Ali deck, which turned some heads.

{% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/KumiteIX/5.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}

Angelo brought beats with “The (RG) Deck”, and managed to land the only channel-fireball I saw during the day.

{% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/KumiteIX/6.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}

# Tournament Report

{% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/KumiteIX/7.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}

64 players – 6 rounds – I don’t know how helpful a sideboard guide for my rogue deck will be, but here goes. The TLDR of it is: just shove Maze of Ith in if the opponents cards have a P/T. Here is my best recollection of my path through the tournament on “Angel Food”:

## Round 1

1-2 L vs Quientin on UG aggro
Turns out Maze is also an outstanding card against me. In what was essentially a mirror, I found myself behind on mazes and dibs, and ultimately lost the war. I tend to overrate this matchup – recently this archetype has given me a real challenge (GGs, great to meet you!)
Sideboard: +2 Maze, +2 control magic, -1 folk, -1 lord, -1 LoA/GG

## Round 2

2-0 W vs Isaac on BG resource denial
I was unsure about this matchup, as I didn’t get a great read on game 1. This matchup is favorable for me with alternative mana sources, and ultimately I was able to swing a with a big berserk before feeling much pressure game two. Rumor has it this was my opponent’s 1st OS tournament! It was great to meet you and hope to cross paths again soon!
Sideboard: none

## Round 3

{% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/KumiteIX/8.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}

This one was on camera, and I came super prepared with the needed deck photo (Thanks for the help Caleb). …
2-0 W vs Jason on BR control
My biggest worries in a matchup like this is mass removal and simply taking too long to go off. When designing this deck, I meant it to really capitalize on the turns that control decks need to set up. Luckily, I was able to have a couple of sleek games before there was too much pressure under card disadvantage, or the abyss. Jason and I last played at the ’24 FE Champs, and it was great to catch up! GGs!
Sideboard: +2 REB, +1 Transmogrant, -1 lord, -1 psi blast, -1 twister

## Round 4

2-1 vs Ben on Mono Black
Game one might have been the best game of magic I’ve played this year – this was a long, tight and swingy game that ultimately saw me under a Serendib, rack, and underworld dreams. I ended up winning by the skin of my teeth casting an ancestral, and pulling a berserk (perfect math) while going to 1 life. Game 2 and three were much quicker, and I was able to power through in what I feel recently is a rather even matchup with mono black. It was great to meet a fellow A40 player in person! GGs!
Sideboard: +2 control Magic, +2 Maze of ith, -1 lord, -1 Merfolk, -1 LoA on the play

## Round 5

2-1 vs Dave on White Tron Control
Round 5 was back on camera for a feature match. I hope to see this footage, as these were some wild games, and I’d like to study the matchup a bit. I spent much of game 1 trying to figure out what was going on and ultimately was milled out! Game 2 saw me ride energy flux to victory. Game 3 was a weird hand to keep, but felt like it was favorable with how game 2 ended- not as easy as it sounded. After 2 missed orb flips between us early game (Yikes!) and some jockeying, our round went to time. I was able to land a Fallen Angel and deliver an unanswered killing blow on time turn 4, to save us the embarrassment of flipping any more orbs. Great games, this one had me sweating.
Sideboard: +1 Gloom, +3 Energy Flux, +1 Tranquility, +1 Counterspell, -3 lord of atlantis, -1 ernham djinn, -2 Merfolk

## Round 6

1-2 vs Doug on White Weenie
White Weenie is one of those decks I think I underestimate a bit due to my also playing a high number of creatures. I made it to round 6 before I had a truly bad hand. After winning game one, I was simply unable to come out from under city in a bottle. I didn’t plan for this, and game 3 saw another mulligan, and no sideboard cards. The game was close, but ultimately I fell to those beloved Fallen Empires knights. Turns out Fallen Angel can’t block an Order of Lietbur, even if played confidently. GGs!
Sideboard: +2 Sandstorm, +2 Maze of ith, -1 psi blast, -1 lord of atlantis, -1 timetwister, -1 LoA on the play.

{% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/KumiteIX/9.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}

Thanks again to all that make this event possible, and all that make it great! Overall, 2026 has been an outstanding year for OS (and I have been fortunate enough to be able to get to a few more events than normal recently). We were able to raise 500+ dollars (and matched to 1000) to local charity, and in Kumite style, a snake draft of altered cards was high prize for all! …oh and thanks to Susan Van Camp for attending and making the event all that much more meaningful!

{% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/KumiteIX/10.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}

# Post mortem

I wouldn’t change much except just being able to slow time at events like this. Magic as it should be.

Honestly, I love this deck and this build. There might be some controversy regarding boarding out LoA at times. Maze of Ith really was a strong card this tournament for me (as well as against me). I feel Gloom did not pull weight on the sideboard, and could be a third sandstorm for the inevitable weenie matchup. I wouldn’t change much else. I have to give a shoutout to my buddy Jason for a no-heads-up “hear me out” phone call at 11pm for designing this sideboard. Awesome deck variety in the room.

Looking forward to the next Kumite, as well as other NE Ohio local events such as Ornithoptoberfest (Oct 4) and the 2026 Fallen Empires World champs (Sept 19th).

{% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/KumiteIX/11.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}

Until next time!
